1. Summary
This project includes a flexible and well-structured API automation framework developed using Java,
Rest-Assured, TestNG, and Allure Reporting.
The framework is designed to test the Reqres public API by verifying
user management operations such as creating, updating, retrieving, and deleting users.

2. Framework Development Tools
Java (OpenJDK 22.0.1) used as the main programming language.
Maven for project dependency management and build automation.
IntelliJ IDEA used as the development environment (IDE).
Rest-Assured (5.5.6) for building and executing API test requests.
TestNG (7.11.0) for managing test execution and organizing test cases.
Allure Reporting (2.29.1) for generating comprehensive test reports.

3. Project Hierarchy
a)The project is organized under the src directory, which is divided into main and test sections.
b)The main/java folder contains the core framework code.
c)Inside main/java, the models package stores Data Transfer Object. classes used for API request and response bodies.
d)The services package contains the methods responsible for sending API requests and handling responses.
e)The RestAssuredConfigurations.java file manages the configuration settings for Rest-Assured.
f)The test/java folder contains the automation test code.
g)Within this folder, the tests package includes the API test classes.
h)The data/Utils package provides utilities such as reading JSON test data.
i)The resources folder stores JSON files used as test data during execution.
j)The testNg.xml file defines the TestNG suite configuration used to run and organize the tests.

4. Features
a)Supports user lifecycle operations through the Reqres API, including creating,
updating, retrieving, and deleting users.
b)Implements data-driven testing by reading input data from external JSON files.
c)Uses a centralized configuration class (RestAssuredConfigurations) to
manage common Rest-Assured settings for all API requests.
d)Maintains clear separation of data objects by using UserRequest for request payloads and Users for API responses.
e)Integrates Allure Reporting to generate detailed and visually rich test execution reports.

5. How to Run Tests
Install Allure Command Line Interface Through terminal Using (npm)
Or
Using TestNg To Run Test Cases:mvn test -DsuiteXmlFile="src/test/resources/testNg.xml"

6.Generating the Report
Open the terminal in the project directory.
Run the following command to generate the Allure report from the test results:
a) allure generate ./allure-results -o ./allure-report
After the report is created, open it using the following command:
b)allure open ./allure-report



